# CPP Assignment

To run the code in termainal: 
* Go to the code directory.
* Compile: $ g++ LibraryManagementSystem.cpp -o LibraryManagementSystem.exe
* Run the executable: $ LibraryManagementSystem.exe

To run the code in IDE:
* Open any IDE which you use.
* Press the run button to run the code.

On running the code, you will see the following:

            Type 1 to login as Librarian.
            Type 2 to login as Professor.
            Type 3 to login as Student.

            Enter your choice:

To login as Librarian, you should enter the user_id and password corresponding to "librarian" role given in "userList.txt" file.  
        For example:- 
        Yashanki Tonde,yasht,123,librarian (entry in "userList.txt")

        So enter:
        Please enter your user_id: yasht
        Please enter your password: 123

To login as Professor, you should enter the user_id and password corresponding to "professor" role given in "userList.txt" file.  
         For example:- 
         Manas Gupta,manasg,789,professor (entry in "userList.txt")

        So enter:
        Please enter your user_id: manasg
        Please enter your password: 789


To login as Student, you should enter the user_id and password corresponding to "student" role given in "userList.txt" file.  
        For example:- 
        Priya Gole,priyaa,1,student (entry in "userList.txt")

        So enter:
        Please enter your user_id: priyaa
        Please enter your password: 1

Then you will be redirected to corresponding user portal.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files in the code directory:-

* LibraryManagementSystem.cpp: Entry point of the program. Contains the main() function.

* user.h: Contains the class definition of user class and its children classes Student, Professor, Librarian. 

* librarian.h: Contains the Librarian Login and portal.

* professor.h: Contains the Professor Login and portal.

* student.h: Contains the Student Login and portal.

* userfunctions.h: Contains the function definitions related to user.

* booksfunction.h: Contains the function definitions related to books.

* bookList.txt: The book database.

* userList.txt: The user database.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Databases:

* bookList.txt: Contains the list of all the books available. 

 Each row corresponds to a unique entry of book in the following format:
 BookName,AuthorName,ISBN,Publication,issued_by,Role_of_user,issue_date

For example:

                Book: "Ordinary Differential Equations" by "Dr. Deepjyoti Kalita" 
                ISBN: 978-93-89474-49-7 and by "Surya Prakash Publications"
                This book is issued by Professor Manas Gupta (user_id: manasg) on 07/04/2022
                then the entry in the database will be in the following format:
                "Ordinary Differential Equations,Dr. Deepjyoti Kalita,978-93-89474-49-7,Surya Prakash Publications,manasg,professor,07/04/2022"
                (The entries are comma seperated.)

For the books that are not issued by anyone, the entry is as follows:
BookName,AuthorName,ISBN,Publication,not_issued,NA,NA

For example:

                Book: "Client Server Computing" by "Lalit Kumar"
                ISBN: 978-93-8067-432-2 by "Sun India Publications"
                This book is not issued by anyone, then the entry in the database will be in the following format:
                "Client Server Computing,Lalit Kumar,978-93-8067-432-2,Sun India Publications,not_issued,NA,NA"


* userList.txt: Contains the list of all the users. 

Each row corresponds to a unique entry of the user in the following format: 
UserName,user_id,password,Role_of_user 

                For example:
                Yashanki Tonde,yasht,123,librarian
                (The entries are comma seperated)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assumptions:

* user_id and password of user must not contain a space in it, whereas Name can have space in it.
* Only Librarian can add users and books in the respective database. User_id and password of users is generated by librarian.
* While returning the book, dues must be cleared. Hence, dues are displayed on returning the book.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
